Alright, let's now build
the very simple footer of our page.
In this section you're not gonna learn any new stuff,
but you will apply all the concepts,
that we already learned to a new situation.
That's also helpful to practice.
What we will do is just this very simple footer
navigation here and then this text down here.
Something very simple.
This is where our footer is
and let's use a nav element
and I'm also gonna call it nav.
Nav for navigation.
Then in there, as always,
we have a bunch of LI elements,
nav item, and then in there,
we have a couple of links.
A dot nav link pointing to nowhere
and then the text in the first one
is find your dream home.
So let's copy that and create a bunch more.
Request
proposal,
download the home planner,
this is just a couple of link items,
that don't really matter,
it's just some placeholder text here.
Submit your property
and finally come work with us.
Let's now style all of this.
The first thing, that we want here in the footer
is some padding.
Okay, that we can see what's going on here
and then our navigation.
Actually this should be not a nav element, but an UL.
If we have an LI element,
that one should always be inside a UL element.
Now that we have the UL, we can then say,
that we want list style none
and let's just take a look at that now.
Here we go.
How do we put these items here side by side?
We can use flex box and we can use grid.
In this case, we have a one dimensional layout
and flex box would seem like the best choice,
but we'll use CSS grid.
That's because I find it easier to work with grids,
when we want some space between the elements.
With flex box we would have to use margin right
and then on the last element,
we would have to say, that we want no margin at all.
With CSS grid, it's just more natural,
we just have to define a grid gap
and it just happens like between the elements.
Until there is something like that in flex box,
I find it easier to work in these situations with CSS grid.
Let's define our simple grid
and it's simply gonna be six columns.
Not actually here, but here in the nav, of course.
Display, grid
and the template columns should be.
Now let's think about this, once more,
we want this to be automatically responsive
without writing the media queries.
Instead of just writing six, one F R,
what would get the job done,
we can make it better.
Instead we use our old trick, where we use auto fit here
as the number of columns and that one
will automatically figure out how many tracks
there should be and the size should always stay behind,
let's say, for now 20 rem and one F R.
As soon as one of these tracks gets narrower,
than 20 rem, one of the column tracks will disappear.
That's what we've always been doing.
Let's now style these links,
that we can then take a look at if that works.
Let's style a link
and aport the link state and the visited state,
and that's not correct, of course, but that's it.
That's the way we've been always doing it.
Select the link and the visited state here at the same time.
Font size one point four rem,
the color should be white.
No text decoration in order to get rid of the underlining,
add a font family should be our display font.
I also want to text an uppercase
and the text we aligned at the center.
Finally, just, that we can see these items,
let's change the background color a little bit.
What I'm gonna do here is to set it to a white color
with only very very small alpha.
It's basically going to be transparent,
meaning that it will be a slightly lighter blue.
Let's just take a look at that now.
Okay, that doesn't look perfect yet,
let's just add some padding here.
Padding one point five rem and in order for this
to be applied, let's set this to a block.
Let's say display block.
How's that going to look?
Alright, now the thing, that I was telling in the beginning,
that we need here, of course, just a gap.
Grid gap
two rem.
It's really great with grid to add spacing.
All we have to do is to use this gap property
and it's really easy to work with this.
Because again, this doesn't add any space
at the end of the container,
like margin right would do,
if we used flex box here instead.
Like this, it's going to be just perfect.
We have this nice spacing here going on now
on all of them, except in the last one.
Let's now take a look what happens,
when we decrease the view port
and you already see, that it starts a new column here.
That's very soon, let's change that minimum limit here
to something a bit smaller.
It hit these 20 rem pretty soon
and went from six columns to five columns,
but if we change that to something smaller, of course,
then that limit happens a bit later.
Let's take a look at that
and it's happening now.
That's perfectly fine like this.
Three by two and now at some point it will become
three by two and then just like this in the end.
That's perfect.
Now we want these to be aligned in the vertical direction
and that's very easy to do.
By now, you're already familiar with this.
Align items center.
Aligning all of the grid items
inside their grid cells along the column axis,
so vertically, and here we go.
Of course, as we start decreasing,
then these here change and automatically align as well.
That part is done, let's just add some nice hover
animation here.
Transition all point two seconds
and then let's add this, this part,
this background color here only when we hover.
On hover
and on active.
Alright, great, I think I also had this effect,
where I moved it up a little bit,
so just a small translate.
Again, nothing new here for you,
just to make it a little bit nicer.
Now, all that's left to do
is the small copyright text here.
Let's put that there as well.
After this UL element, a paragraph with copyright,
just let me write some text here again.
Copyright 2017 by Jonas Schmedtmann
and that's me of course.
Again, please feel free
to use this project for your own purposes.
This does not apply
if you plan to produce your own video course
or tutorials based on this project.
I am saying that, because, unfortunately,
I had people trying to do that.
Some people, they take my project
and then they do their own video courses with that.
That's not allowed, okay, just adding that here
to make it crystal clear.
Let's get this copyright class
and edit down here.
Font size one point four rem
and color, that we want here is, let's see,
it's this one.
The color light two.
Let's add some margin from the top of six rem
and text the line center.
Let's just take a look at that.
That looks quite good already.
Now let's just make this a bit shorter, maybe,
width, let's say, 70%.
What's happening now?
Okay, I see, that now, it's, of course, not centered here
inside transparent element.
We can use the trick, where we make the right margin
set to auto.
Margin right
auto,
add margin left, auto and that is going to fix that.
That's it, that's the very small footer here
and we practice some more with CSS grid
with making this responsive here.
Basically without writing the media query,
having it adapt to the screen size.
We're already getting close to the end here,
in the next video we're just going to finish
the sidebar and there's not a lot to do,
it's just adding a small button here,
which is not doing anything at all.
Then after that, we have just this header
and this realtors part here.
We're getting close to the end
and next up we have this sidebar here.